PROBLEM STATEMENT:

The Byzantine Generals Problem is a way to model the reliability of computer systems, namely
distributed systems.

We imagine there are multiple division of the Byzantine army sieging a city, with each division
being led by a general. The generals can only communicate by messenger. The generals need to 
decide and agree on a plan. Unfortunately there can be traitorous generals trying to prevent the 
generals coming to an agreement. The generals have to come up with an algorithm to guarantee that:

    A) All loyal generals decide upon the same plan of action.
    B) A small number of traitors cannot cause the loyal generals to adopt a bad plan.

Loyal generals will follow the algorithm, while traitors will do what they wish.

It is hard to quantify what a "bad" plan is, so the paper does not try and qualify it. Instead they
explore how the generals can reach a decision. Let there be n generals and v(i) be the information
sent by the ith general. A general has to use some method of taking all of the plans communicated to
them, v(1),...,v(n), and combining them into one plan. Having all of the generals use the same
method of combining the information will meet Condition A.

To simplify the problem, we say that the plan can only be whether to attack or to retreat, making
v(i) General i's opinion on which of the two options is the best. So each general can take a
majority vote of v(1),...,v(n) and decide that whichever option wins is the best. This method only
lets a small number of traitors affect the result if the loyal generals are split on the two options,
in which case neither decision can be deemed "bad". So to satisfy Condition B, we must use a robust
algorithm that makes it difficult for a small number of traitors to disrupt the plan.

To ensure that Condition A and Condition B are met, we need to meet two other conditions:

    1) Every loyal general must obtain the same information v(1),...,v(n).
    2) If the ith general is loyal, then the value that he sends must be used by every loyal general
       as teh value of v(i).

These are important because a loyal general cannot take a value v(i) at face value, because a
traitorous general could send different values of v(i) to different generals. Even though the
generals cannot necessarily trust every message, we must find a way to guarantee that loyal generals
use the values sent to them by other generals.

Condition 1 can be rewritten as:

    1'. For every i, any two loyal generals use the same value of v(i).

Since Condition 1' and Condition 2 are both contingent on a single v(i) sent by the ith general, we
can focus on how a single general sends values to others. We phrase this problem by referring to a
commander sending messages to his lieutenants.

Byzantine Generals Problem. A Commanding general must send an order to his n - 1 lieutenants such that

    IC1. All loyal lieutenants obey the same order.
    IC2. If the commander is loyal, the every loyal lieutenant obeys the order he sends.

Conditions IC1 and Condition IC2 are called the interactive consistency conditions. // TODO: define that.

If the commander is loyal, then IC1 follows IC2. However, the commander can be a traitor.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

THREE GENERALS:

When sending only oral messages, at least two thirds of the lieutenants must be loyal for any
solution to work. The distinction of oral message is important, as it means that the contents of a
message is completely up to sender. So a traitorous sender can send any message it wants.

We will look at the simplest form of this problem, where there is three generals (one commander and
two lieutenants). There are two possible orders: "attack" or "retreat". No solution can exist for
this if there is a single traitor.

Situation 1: The commander is loyal, but one of the lieutenants is a traitor. 

The commander sends out the command "attack" to both lieutenants. Both lieutenants rely the order
they receive to the other, but since one lieutenant is a traitor, they rely the message "retreat".
The loyal lieutenant receives the set of orders: {"attack", "retreat"}, there is no way for him
to decide which is the correct order. 

// TODO: create a diagram for this.

Situation 2: The commander is not loyal, both lieutenants are.

The commander sends "attack" to Lieutenant 1 and "retreat" to Lieutenant 2. Since they are both loyal
they rely the commands to the other. Lieutenant 1 receives the set of orders: {"attack", "retreat"}.

Since Lieutenant 1 receives the set of orders: {"attack", "retreat"} in both situations, there is no
way for him to know who they traitor is, so he follows his commander's orders to attack in both
situations, regardless of if the commander is a traitor.

We can make a similar argument that Lieutenant 2 must follow the "retreat" command in the second
situation. This violates IC1 since the two loyal lieutenants obey different orders.

// There is a proof for the three-generals problem by Diffie and Hellman
// Maybe include it


// Might not include this. I don't find it as interesting as the rest of the paper, and I'll likely
// have to cut stuff from the presentation anyways. I can just use the above part of the 3 general
// problem to help set the stage for the rest of the paper.
// Might need it though, so I'll decide that later.
Albanian General's Proof

Using the result from Diffie and Hellman we can show that no solution with fewer than 3m+1 generals
can cope with m traitors, with n > 3 generals. 
We will prove this by contradiction. 
We will refer to the generals from Diffie and Hellman's results as Byzantine generals and the 
generals in this assumed solution as Albanian generals.

Assume n <= 3m Albanian generals can handle m traitors. We simulate this by allowing a solution of
3 Byzantine generals that can handle 1 traitor.

Let each of the Byzantine generals simulate at most m Albanian generals. The Byzantine commander
simulates the Albanian commander and at most m-1 Albanian lieutenants. Each of the Byzantine
lieutenants at most m Albanian lieutenants. Since each Byzantine general simulates at most m
Albanian generals, and there can only be one Byzantine traitor, there are at most m Albanian traitors.
// TODO: finish this if I want to include it.

// TODO: Add the part about the approximate.
// Might not add this either.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ORAL SOLUTION:

